As you're probably aware by now,
most text data requires a fair
amount of pre-processing.
For larger data sets processing training
data in batches is very useful as well.
Let's go over how you can apply both
to your named entity recognition model.
I'll show you how to
convert entity classes and
label data into arrays of numbers
that correspond to one another.
And how to create a data generator
to process your data in batches,
saving you time and resources.
So, let's begin.
First, you'll assign each
entity class a unique number.
So for example,
a personal name might be 1,
geographical location might be 2,
and a time indicator might be 3.
Next, assign each word a number that
corresponds to its assigned entity class.
So given a sentence like Sharon
flew to Miami last Friday.
You get a corresponding
tokenized sentence, where
4,282 corresponds to the index of Sharon,
853 corresponds to flew,
187 corresponds with to, and so forth.
The O corresponds to the O class, which
denotes a filler or unrecognised word.
Note also that the numbers
you see here are random and
are assigned when you process your data.
From this point, each sequence is then
transformed into an array of numbers,
where each number corresponds to
the index of the labeled word.
So from a labelled sentence
that looks like this,
you'll be transforming it
into a numerical array.
When processing the data sets, you need
to represent each word in the vocabulary,
as a number as you just saw.
This gives you a numerical arrays,
whatever the arrays are different sizes,
you'll need to handle that.
And here's why, LSTMs networks,
require that all your
sequences are the same length.
To assist with this, you can set
the length of your sequences to a certain
number and add the generic PAD
token to fill all the empty spaces.
You'll be implementing
this in the assignments.
But don't worry about it.
It's a relatively simple process and
I'll show you exactly how to do it.
In order to train this NER entity
recognition system, you will first create
a tensor for each input and its
corresponding label, as you saw before.
Then, create a data generator
to output them in batches.
The batch size can be anything you want.
But normally, you'd want a batch
size that is in a power of two.
So something like 64, 128,
256, 512, and so forth.
Doing this will speed up your
processing time considerably.
If you felt alarmed by the words, create
a data generator, don't worry about it.
There will be more on this to come.
After the batches are generated,
feed them into an LSTM unit.
You will run the output from this through
a dense or fully connected layer.
Then predict using a log softmax
over K possible classes,
where K corresponds to
the number of possible output.
Using log softmax instead of softmax
is important here, because log softmax
gets better in numerical performance and
gradients optimization.
Let's take a look at
a visual of this process.
Here are the inputs,
which include the arrays you
created when processing the data.
You feed them through an LSTM layer
with its series of activations and
element wise operations, run the outputs
of that through a final dense layer,
which is a linear operation
on the input vectors.
And then you compute a log softmax
to get the corresponding outputs.
Here's what the layers might look
like when you're implementing them
in this week's assignments.
For your dense layer,
you will want to pass in the dimensions
of the text arrays you just created.
Now we are ready to
accomplish some mighty tasks
like numerical array
conversion with token padding.
Training in batches for
faster processing and
running your model through its final
dense layer and activation function.
You've come a long way since the beginning
of this course, just a bit more to go.